SIMPLESTROKE(1)         FreeBSD General Commands Manual        SIMPLESTROKE(1)

NAME
     simplestroke -- a gesture recognition application

SYNOPSIS
     simplestroke -h
     simplestroke new -d description -c command [-w seconds] [-h]
     simplestroke detect [-hn]
     simplestroke export -i id [-f file] [-c color] [-h]

DESCRIPTION
     simplestroke is a gesture detection application.  It is backed by a
     SQLite database that is used to store the gestures.  Most of the
     interface consists of manipulating this database.  There are several
     modes and the first argument determines the mode simplestroke starts in.

     new         In this mode simplestroke records a gesture and creates a new
                 entry in the database.  Every gesture needs to have a human
                 readable description and an action or command to execute on
                 detection of a gesture.  The -c and -d options are required
                 and not optional.  simplestroke waits for 2 seconds before
                 recording the gesture.  When you are finished drawing the
                 gesture click or press any mouse button or key.

                 -c command      The command to execute on detection of the
                                 gesture.  command is passed to /bin/sh.

                 -d description  A human-readable description for the gesture.
                                 The description can be arbitrarily long.

                 -w seconds      By default simplestroke waits for 2 seconds
                                 before recording a gesture. You can override
                                 this behavior with -w.  If seconds is 0,
                                 simplestroke will start recording your mouse
                                 movements immediately.

     detect      This mode starts gesture detection.  Draw your gesture and
                 then confirm by clicking any mouse button.

                 More specifically, simplestroke reacts on the release of any
                 mouse button.  This makes it possible to start simplestroke
                 with a pressed mouse button and start gesture analysis after
                 releasing it.

                 -n              Do not execute the command associated with a
                                 detected gesture, but print information about
                                 it instead, if any.

     export      Displays information about the gesture with the id given by
                 -i.  Output goes to stdout.  JSON export is provided for
                 importing and working with the gesture in other programs.
                 SVG export is for displaying the gesture.  Use display from
                 the ImageMagick package to view the SVG. Alternatively, any
                 modern browser will render SVGs.

                 -i id           The id of the gesture to export.

                 -j              Output JSON.

                 -s              Output a SVG image.

                 -c color        The stroke color, can be in any format that
                                 is supported by SVG.

EXAMPLES
   STARTING DETECTION
     To start gesture detection in every day situations, you might want to
     setup your desktop environment to start simplestroke detect.

     E.g. to start simplestroke with xbindkeys while holding down the 9th
     mouse button add this to your ~/.xbindkeysrc

           "simplestroke detect"
                   b:9

     Hold the mouse button and after you are finished drawing your gesture,
     release it.  simplestroke will then analyse your gesture and determine
     which command to start, if any.

     To start gesture detection with your keyboard add this to your
     ~/.xbindkeysrc

           "simplestroke detect"
                   Mod4 + c + Release

     or if you use i3 add this to your ~/.config/i3/config

           bindsym --release $mod+c

     the release options prevents xbindkeys or i3 from spawning multiple
     simplestroke processes.  Draw your gesture and press a mouse button to
     start detection.

     Note that binding to mouse buttons is currently not possible in i3 4.8.

SEE ALSO
     display(1) i3(1) xbindkeys(1)

AUTHORS
     Tobias Kortkamp <tobias.kortkamp@gmail.com>

     simplestroke is inspired and based on easystroke 0.6.0 written by Thomas
     Jaeger <ThJaeger@gmail.com>.

FreeBSD 10.1                   February 18, 2015                  FreeBSD 10.1
